Elsayed Said Mohamed, AA. Belal, Sameh Kotb Abd-Elmabod, Mohammed A El-Shirbeny, A. Gad, Mohamed B Zahran,
Smart farming for improving agricultural management,
The Egyptian Journal of Remote Sensing and Space Science,
Volume 24, Issue 3, Part 2,
2021,
Pages 971-981,
ISSN 1110-9823,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejrs.2021.08.007.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1110982321000582)
Abstract: The food shortage and the population growth are the most challenges facing sustainable development worldwide. Advanced technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI), the Internet of Things (IoT), and the mobile internet can provide realistic solutions to the challenges that are facing the world. Therefore, this work focuses on the new approaches regarding smart farming (SF) from 2019 to 2021, where the work illustrates the data gathering, transmission, storage, analysis, and also, suitable solutions. IoT is one of the essential pillars in smart systems, as it connects sensor devices to perform various basic tasks. The smart irrigation system included those sensors for monitoring water level, irrigation efficiency, climate, etc. Smart irrigation is based on smart controllers and sensors as well as some mathematical relations. In addition, this work illustrated the application of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) and robots, where they can be achieved several functions such as harvesting, seedling, weed detection, irrigation, spraying of agricultural pests, livestock applications, etc. real-time using IoT, artificial intelligence (AI), deep learning (DL), machine learning (ML) and wireless communications. Moreover, this work demonstrates the importance of using a 5G mobile network in developing smart systems, as it leads to high-speed data transfer, up to 20 Gbps, and can link a large number of devices per square kilometer. Although the applications of smart farming in developing countries are facing several challenges, this work highlighted some approaches the smart farming. In addition, the implementation of Smart Decision Support Systems (SDSS) in developing countries supports the real-time analysis, mapping of soil characteristics and also helps to make proper decision management. Finally, smart agriculture in developing countries needs more support from governments at the small farms and the private sector.
Keywords: IoT; Smart Agriculture; 5G; Decision support systems; Smart sensing
